README.md, before:

Europa Universalis 4 MOD

THIS MOD IS WORK IN PROGRESS. IT COULD COMPLETELY BREAK, IT COULD HAVE NO FUNCTIONALITY. IT'S BASICALLY AN ALPHA VERSION CURRENTLY.

This mod is an enhancement of existing  AI tweaking mods. Thanks to all already existing AI mods for inspiration.

PLAY THIS GAME ON HARD.

 I tweaked the bonuses for the difficulty. Currently only Hard is modded. "Hard" provides -1 unrest for AI and 10%/25%/50% forcelimit for AI for age of reformation/absolutism/revolution

This mod is supposed to enhance the behavior of the AI to actually invest in Missionaries, to build more buildings and to wage more wars with the goal of blobbing like a player would. 

Still, a nation is nothing without proper building structure. Therefore the building importance got tweaked a bit to prefer manufactories, workshops, etc. and to give less importance to docks and similar. 

This current revision also contains improvements to AI mana spending, meaning it will not waste mana when reaching cap but instead try to invest into provinces. (Not sure why this isn't in the basegame).

There are modifications done for the defines but also the AI_army script for wartime. It pushes the AI movement to pursue provinces of value and makes it more likely to go for provinces with high value tradegoods or important buildings on it, aswell as follow claims/permaclaims better.

This mod will not do miracles. It will just try to use the tools we have on our disposale.

The major modifiers for the AI can be found in the defines!

CURRENTLY STILL NOT WORKING:
- properly assigning edicts at war/when deving
- properly calculate dev cost. Currently it's just an estimate based on the amount of base_tax/production/manpower the province has, meaning base-to-dev * 10 is the cost.
- missionaries still not assigned when budget is low
- AI alliance evaluation is not satisfying enough
- AI is not ruthless enough is hunting down enemy armies and does not lock down a region as desired
- AI should avoid attrition
- reduce mindless mercspam (smarter province choice?)
- use estates for power (could be an ai-event every 20 years for ~100 monarch points each)
- AI upgrading their forts when a new level is available

ISSUES:
- nations outside of institutions that fall back insanely far will wait for the institution to reach them before teching up (due to spending all points above 950).  Needs fix to give institution spread in province after devving + make AI commit to one province with devving when behind institution
- AI peacing out too quickly when sieged by rebels/capital gets sieged (needs investigation)

SOME OF THESE THINGS WON'T HAVE A FIX AT ALL, BUT I TRY! :)

Commit message:

include institution devpush feature, add entries to TODO list, change readme format

README.md, after:

Europa Universalis 4 MOD

[h2]DISCLAIMER[/h2]
[b]THIS MOD IS WORK IN PROGRESS. IT COULD WORK, IT COULD COMPLETELY BREAK, IT COULD HAVE NO FUNCTIONALITY. IT'S BASICALLY AN ALPHA VERSION CURRENTLY[/b] .

[h1]What is this mod?[/h1]
This mod is an enhancement of existing  AI tweaking mods. Thanks to all already existing AI mods for inspiration.

[b]PLAY THIS GAME ON HARD[/b] .

[h1] So... what's the actual content?[/h1]
[h3]Difficulty[/h3]
 I tweaked the bonuses for the difficulty. Currently only Hard is modded. "Hard" provides -1 unrest for AI and 10%/25%/50% forcelimit for AI for age of reformation/absolutism/revolution

This mod is supposed to enhance the behavior of the AI to actually invest in Missionaries, to build more buildings and to wage more wars with the goal of blobbing like a player would. 

[h3]Buildings[/h3]
Still, a nation is nothing without proper building structure. Therefore the building importance got tweaked a bit to prefer manufactories, workshops, etc. and to give less importance to docks and similar. 

[h3]AI mana spending![/h3]
This current revision also contains improvements to AI mana spending, meaning it will not waste mana when reaching cap but instead try to invest into provinces. (Not sure why this isn't in the basegame).

[h3]Devpushing Institutions[/h3]
The AI now is also capable of devpushing institutions in the best provinces it can find, meaning either capital, gold provinces or just provinces with good trade goods. Of course the AI can't do it for free, meaning it spends 2k mana like the player does.

[h3]AI army behavior[/h3]
There are modifications done for the defines but also the AI_army script for wartime. It pushes the AI movement to pursue provinces of value and makes it more likely to go for provinces with high value tradegoods or important buildings on it, aswell as follow claims/permaclaims better.

[b]This mod will not do miracles. It will just try to use the tools we have on our disposale[/b].

[h1]Just now, I'm working on... [/h1]
- AI_army script bugfix
- make AI upgrade forts when it's time to do so!

[h1]CURRENTLY ON TODO-LIST (recommendations welcome)[/h1]
- properly assigning edicts at war
- properly calculate dev cost. Currently it's just an estimate based on the amount of base_tax/production/manpower the province has, meaning base-to-dev * 10 is the cost.
- missionaries still not assigned when budget is low
- AI alliance evaluation is not satisfying enough
- AI is not ruthless enough is hunting down enemy armies and does not lock down a region as desired
- AI should avoid attrition (ever seen a 1.3m forcelimit ottomans navigating? With this mod you will)
- reduce mindless mercspam (smarter province choice?)
- use estates for power (could be an ai-event every 20 years for ~100 monarch points each)
- AI upgrading their forts when a new level is available
- push natives to complete their religion minigame before they get slaughtered
- make england/GB and naval invasions overall useful again
[h1]ISSUES[/h1]
- AI peacing out too quickly when sieged by rebels/capital gets sieged ([b]probably fixed right now, will look into depending on feedback to further tweak values[/b])

__________________________________________________________________


SOME OF THESE THINGS WON'T HAVE A FIX AT ALL, BUT I TRY! :)
